# Basic Concepts of Probability Theory


In this folder, you can find the codes that are used in the second chapter of the Master thesis: 
*“Basic Concepts of Probability Theory”*.
In particular, you can find:

-	**Density_estimators**[*script*] compares the estimates of the probability density function of a standard normal distribution. 
It compares the histogram estimator and kernel density estimator with respect to the real probability density function of the normal distribution.

-	**Distribution_Exponential** [*script*] plots the probability density functions and the cumulative density functions of the exponential distributions with rate 2, 1, and 0.5.

-	**Distribution_Normal** [*script*] plots the probability density functions and the cumulative density functions of the normal distributions with different mean mu and standard deviation sigma, i.e. (mu,sigma)={(-2,0.2); (0,1); (0,2); (-2,0.5)}

-	**Distribution_Uniform** [*script*] plots the probability density function and the cumulative density function of an arbitrary uniform distribution, U(a,b).

-	**Inversion_method_figure** [*script*] Representation of how the inversion methods works. In particular, the figure represents the inverse cumulative density function of a normal distribution highlighting its codomain [0,1] and a generic sample of a uniform distribution, denoted with u, that through the inversion method is sent to a sample of the normal distribution in this specific case, the obtained sample is denoted with x.

-	**LCG** [*function*] is the Pseudo Random Number Generators: Linear Congruential Generator initialized with the parameters given in equation (1.42), i.e. a=7^5; c=0; m=2^{31}. Given in input an integer n, the program furnishes a vector x with n components; Each of these components is a sample of a uniform distribution or more precisely a pseudo-random number. 

-	**Sampling_Exponential** [*script*] Comparison between the probability density functions exact and generated by a sample of the exponential distribution with different rates. The sample were obtained using the inversion method.

-	**Sampling_Normal** [*script*] Comparison between the probability density function exact and generated by two samples of the standard normal distribution. The samples were generated using the Box-Muller algorithm, that permits to construct two independent samples of a standard normal distribution.

-	**Sampling_Uniform** [*script*] Comparison between the probability density functions exact and generated by a sample of the uniform distribution. The sample was obtained using the function LCG (that must be contained in the same folder of this script in order to run "Sampling_Uniform").

[Return to the main folder](https://github.com/lucafe/PCE4UDDE_matlab_codes).
